From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hanselman. It's a weekly
discussion with a web developer
and technologists. Scott Hanselman hosted
by call Franklin. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number six
recorded Monday, February 13th, 2006. Support for
Hansel minutes is provided by
automated QA makers of test
complete providing automated testing of
windows.net framework, Java and web
applications online@wwwdotautomatedqa.com. And by Peter
bloom.com start with better controls.
Finish with better sites online@wwwdotpeterblum.com.
Support is also provided by.net
developers journal. The world's leading
and.net developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Scott explorers,
the LyncSys WRT five, four
GL packable router. Hi, this
is Carl Franklin and you're listening
to Hanselman. It's number six,
I'm here with Scott again,
and we're talking this week
about the links, this router,
the mythical links, this router
that you can do all
sorts of things with, right?
Scott. Absolutely. You can pick
these guys up for next
to nothing. It's amazing. They
still make them. And now
that they know they can
be hacked, they've made many
versions of them. I've got
a version 1.1 and a
version two. You can flip
this little blue box over
and look underneath. It'll tell
you the hardware version. And
then somewhere around version four,
they switched over from Linux
as their main OSTP to
something called VxWorks and lowered
the memory. And they tried
to make things really cheap
and people flipped out. People
were like, wow, I totally
can't hack into this now.
And they, people were fearing
the death knell of this
device. And then they actually
came out with a, a
WRT 54 G L the
Linux version. They basically brought
back that version for the
hackers. So what kind of
stuff can you do with
this? These are those little
blue boxes with the rabbit
ears in the backs. They're
very kind of distinct in
the way that they look
and they're just their little
routers and they've got two
wireless antennas in the back
and underneath it all, though,
this is a, a little
Linux machine. There's a really
interesting hacking guide@linuxelectrons.com shrink stir.com/c
one J that's a complete
hardware hacking guide where the
guy literally walked through step
by step, all the different
little chip details. He kind
of pulls the thing apart
and basically reverse engineers, all
the hardware, like what can
I re you know, what
can I say, or what
can I mess around with?
Wow, what kind of hacking
I'm talking about Maura's with
the, what can we do
with the software? But that
hacking guide is really interesting.
Other people have hooked up
like Pringles cans to the
antennas to try to boost
the wireless power. Really? Yeah.
I always found that messing
around with antenna lengths does
weird things that are not
always good. Sure. You can
buy an extended antenna for
these things, but interestingly, the,
the firmware comes with a,
I believe it's a default
value of 84 milliwatts and
you can pump it up
to up to 240 milliwatts
using these firmwares. One of
the firmwares that you can
flash this with is called
hyper WRT, which is basically
a fork of links. This
is owned firmware and they're
their primary claim to fame
is the ability to pump
up the transmission so people
can cover much greater area
and break all sorts of
FCC Rules. Yeah. Great. So
There's a whole series of
firmware that is not official.
Again, links are so sell
you these things, but they,
they make sure that you're
aware that when you flash
the firmware to something alternative,
it's on you. Yep. So
this is actually great. You
say to yourself, why would
they bother making this? Well,
they get to sell lots
of hardware and they don't
have to support it. Well,
so it's the best of
both worlds, right? They sell
it Bible in any way
for anything anybody does with
it. So, right. Yeah. It's
just like a gun manufacturer.
They sell you this hardware
and you do what you
want to do with it.
And they, they don't have
to sweat it. So you
said there's about nothing you
can't do with it. What
are some really interesting things
people have done? Let's start
with the mundane and get
to the really outrageous Mundane
side. There's a really great
website called link, says info.org
at shrink stir.com/c one B.
And these guys have gone
to all of the effort
to collect all of the
different kinds of firmware that
are available for this particular
device. There's a number of
different, literally a dozen or
more different kinds of firmware.
Most of them are either
based on one of three
different branches. There's the main
stuff that links us did.
There's something called open WRT,
that's an open source WRT
and then there's various branches
off of that, that firmware.
Then there's a company called
Sophia soft SPEA, soft and
various branches off of their
stuff. The, the mundane stuff,
as you can take hyper
WRT and pump up the
power output of your device.
Nice. Now that basically means
a longer range. Yeah. More
greater range of people can
cover an entire culdesac or,
you know, the whole dead
end and give free wireless
to all of their neighbors.
I see it adds additional
fields for things like port
forwarding, Good for a restaurant
or something like that. Well,
So that actually brings us
to a different topic. There's
a thing called a captive
portal. You know how when
you show up somewhere and
you look at your wireless
configuration, it says, Oh, there's
a wireless hotspot nearby, right?
I'll click on that. I
get an IP address. And
as soon as I launch
a browser and I go
to cnn.com, it does a
redirect and it captures me,
it's called a captive portal
and it will send me
off somewhere to, in, or
do whatever I want. Right.
There is an open source
captive portal called chili spot,
C H I L L
I spot chili spot that
you can use along with
a firmware called DD WRT,
it's shrink, stir.com/ . And
these two products working in
conjunction with each other. You
can have you put together
a, a, a captive portal,
so you could give free
wireless to your entire neighborhood,
but only if they have
names and passwords. So then
you could charge your neighbors.
And then when the government
calls, you can hand over
that information and makes lots
of friends. Yeah. The government
or your ISP, some ISP
is allow sharing. Some of
the smaller ISP will allow
sharing as a way of
distinguishing themselves. And there's a
wiki@personaltelco.net or shrinks.com/ . That
has a list of all
the different ISP and whether
or not they promote the
sharing of your connection with
your neighbors. Wow, cool. Now
there's a larger worldwide group
that has got custom firmware
called phone Fon. I think
it's phone. It might be
fun@fon.com and you can go
up there, download firmware and
become a full narrow. That's
their word for someone who
is in their club. And
this is a worldwide name,
password club where anyone else
running this firmware, you will
automatically connect to. So I
can just so cool. Isn't
it cool. I could show
up in Brooklyn. I could
sit down. I could say,
Oh, there's other phone people
out in this area, and
they've also got an online
map. That'll show you where
all these different hotspots are.
And they're trying to basically
blanket the earth with these
things in a free wireless.
Very cool. So, you know,
so if you're a restaurant
or a coffee house, coffee
shop, and you have wireless,
you could, you could put
that firmware in your router
and put a little sticker
on the window that says
we're a phone friendly shop.
Absolutely, absolutely. You know, and
there were a lot of
people doing, you know, you
know, what war driving is
when people get in their
car and wander around looking
for stuff. And now with
GPS is there's lots of
really interesting websites that will
show you whether or not
someone's actually driven by your
house. And that works stumbler,
great tool. Yeah. Networks number
and another evil and very
cool tool that people can
do. Yeah. I've done that
with a tablet, go out
with a tablet with networks,
somewhere in it. We ought
to talk about network stumbler
a little bit. Yeah. So,
well, so network stumbler basically
listens to the underlying communications
that are going back and
forth with your router and
move the windows, wireless zero
configuration stuff out of the
way. And when you're doing
network stumbler, you're going to
be kicked off of your
current wireless network. And you'll
be listening to that kind
of raw feed. Once I
took a train from Seattle
to Portland and I left
network stumbler on as well
as being attached to my
GPS, I had a little
inexpensive Microsoft streets and trips,
GPS, and it logged the
names of all the different
open unsecured unencrypted networks that
were running around as I
drove by. As I rather,
as I went by them
on the train, That's amazing
shrinks for.com one Oh or
net stumbler.com. I've I've used
this as well. Just so
you know, find out where,
how I was interested in
knowing how many open ports
there were and, you know,
between and within a span
of three towns, I found
about 25 open networks. These
are just people who left
their, you know, networks, totally
unsecured. He could sit outside
their house and hitch a
ride on their internet access.
It's very disappointing. Actually, I
went to a friend's house
recently to set her machine
up and basically, you know,
just as all of us
nerds, do you go over,
you run windows update. You
make sure they have all
the raid latest patches and
you turn on the firewall.
And then they think that
you're great. I went over
to a friend's house and
did this and was really
disappointed that the SSI ID,
the identifier for her wireless
network was customer and her
name and password was admin
one, two, three, four, and
the person who set up
her wireless network from the
local Comcast affiliate didn't set
up any security at all.
She was broadcasting throughout the
entire building. Wow. And probably
not just internet traffic, her
own personal traffic too. Yeah.
She had no firewall turned
on. So it was very
easy to go to network
neighborhood and find her machine
wide open. And, but that's
unfortunate. Let's get back to
Kind of basics to make
sure that folks are clear.
What's going on here. We've
got this links us router
that in itself has a
little Linux machine. It doesn't
have a hard drive, but
it does have memory. And
just like you can flash
firmware on a number of
devices like your pocket PC
or your, your replay TV
or any kind of appliance.
This means to look like
an appliance, but it really
is a little computer. I
mean, you can really log
into this Linux machine using
something like putty, P U
T T Y at shrinks.com/
. This is like Telnet,
but with security, you can
putty into this device, log
in as root and do
an LS, you know, like
the Linux equivalent of DIR
and really see what's going
on. And there's configuration files.
There's a little web server.
It is a real little
machine. You should talk a
little bit about SSH. This
is something me as a
windows guy didn't know about
until a friend of mine
told me, yeah, H is
a thing called secure shell.
And this is a program
that you would use to
log into another computer, kind
of like Telnet, but this
is specific to Linux machines
and it's, it's intended as
a replacement for Telnet and
our log in and all
these different things that would
allow you to connect to
another machine. For example, SourceForge
where I store some of
the open source things that
I do. You can get
secure shell access and get
access to your file system.
And SSH supports various encryption
algorithms like triple Dez, Blowfish
two it's it's highly secure
shelling into, it's not wide
open, like, like telling it,
and you can set up
keys and two way security
to make sure that only
you can SSH into your
particular machine potty is the
tool that you would use
on windows to, to do
that. So you get one
of these devices and you
put it onto your network
and you go and you
fire up a web browser
and you visit one 90
two.one 60 eight.one.one, and you
get a nice a website
and it says links us.
And everything's great under administration.
There's a section that says
upgrade firmware. You can go
to one of these sites.
The one I would suggest
to start with is links
as info.org. The one we
mentioned before shrinks.com/  and
decide what are you trying
to get out of your,
your router experience? If you
just want the basics, but
a little bit more go
hyper WRT. If you want
a lot of support and
are willing to pay for
it via soft, we'll charge
you 20 bucks, but they
have, even though it's a
free thing, they'll charge you
20 bucks for support. Some
people have a problem with
some of their open source
practices, and we'll use a
thing called D D dash
WRT instead, which is an
opensource version where you can
donate to the gentlemen, but
it is still a free
process. I use personally this
DD WRT. I think that's
a really great one. You
can see that@shrinks.com slash ,
that particular firmware, you just
download a zip file. You
it's a dot bin. So
it's just this big binary
blob from the website. You
basically say browse, you select
that file. And you say
update, you always want to
make sure that you do
your update over a wired
connection, because if your wireless
connection goes down while you're
doing this upgrade, you can
do what's called bricking your
router. And if you brick
it, that means it's basically
dead. Not you can't get
into it. Well, not completely
dead. It's it's bricked. So
there's actually a, The way
that you can.  there's
a thing called the WRT
revival guide@shrink.com slash . And
this revival guide has a
step by step details on
how you can use some
low level protocols and some
safety pins to bring back
your device from the dead.
Hey, this is Carl Franklin checkout
test complete from automated qa.com.
Test complete does automated testing
of windows.net framework, Java and
web applications. It's won jolt
awards two years in a
row from software development magazine,
even though it's been voted
best testing tool test complete
is really affordable. It costs
just a fraction of what
you'd have to pay for
its nearest big name. Competitor
test complete is standards based
and extensible with a well-documented
plugin API, and the test
scripts use familiar languages, VB
script, JavaScript C sharp script
C plus plus script, and
even Delphi scripts. You choose
the language that works best
for your team. You don't
have to buy a dozen
different modules to test all
your applications. Test complete is
a full test development environment.
It has features like an
easy to use windows test
recorder that auto creates test
scripts and an advanced script
editor with features like syntax
highlighting code completion, and context
sensitive help. It has test
execute a lightweight utility for
running distributed tests and test
recorder, a library for building
tests into your application. And
if you plan on using
visual studio 2005 team system
test complete integrates nicely with
it and adds a new
test to complete test type.
So do yourself a favor
and download a free evaluation
copy of test complete@automatedqa.com. Now,
does this also allow anybody
to completely hack into one
of these devices that doesn't
have a password? So, So
as with all of these
things, they use kind of
the same underlying concepts. So
once you upgrade you post
this form and it's all
done over the web, you're
basically uploading that dot Ben
file. And you'll be you'll
rehab to reset your router.
The next step you'll do
is you'll reboot your router.
After that, if you've reset
the firmware to the factory
default, yet it will actually
change your name and password
back to the defaults. You
always want to update your
name and your password to
something that's not admin and
password. So the moral of
the story is, you know,
keeping the box physically locked
under lock and key is
always the best policy, Whether
or not you're using default
firmware. You definitely need to
be aware that your machine
should be secured with a
strong password. Absolutely. Yeah. So
once you upgrade these to
whatever firmware that you want,
you then visit the exact
same a web interface. And
you'll see some of the
new features that have been
exposed. Some of the things
that one might want over
the default are port forwarding
that we mentioned before, but
the really important one that
I think doesn't get enough,
publicity is the thing called
QoS or quality of service.
Yeah, let's talk about that.
So I use Vontage right.
fonagy.com. That's the telephone service
that lets you run all
of your main line telephones
over the internet. Most people
just get the Vonage box,
they plug any old phone
into it and they forget
about it. But I already
had a bunch of existing
phones in my house. So
I went outside to where
the phone wire comes from
the street from my local
phone company. And I cut
it. I cut it as
it came into the house
and I covered it in
tape. And I put a
note inside the phone box,
telling Verizon my phone company
to not reconnect this wire.
So now at this point,
my house is completely off
the grid and the, and
the copper phone wire sense
of the word, right? I
have a single wire running
from the outside where it's
cut off all the way
through the house to a
bedroom where eventually stops. Yeah,
I've take my Vontage and
I plug it into my
ethernet. And then I take
my RJ 11, the tiny
phone cable that we're all
used to. I plug it
from the Vonage box directly
back into the house. Then
that fills the house with
phone support directly through Vonage
and all my existing phone
jacks are on Vonage. Yep.
The key, the disconnecting of
the phone on the outside's
really important. Otherwise you'll, you'll
fry your Vonage box with
that voltage. And what was
happening though, is I would
go and start doing bit
torn. I download dotnet rocks
over bit torn, or I
download an ISO image from
Microsoft and suddenly my wife
would get kicked off the
phone. I needed quality of
shirt of service. I needed
an assurance that my wife's
phone call was more important
than my big ass download,
right? So I can go
into this a firmware like
either Sofia soft or DDRT
or any of the other
ones that exposed some of
that QoS. And some of
the newer links as default
firmwares also have some kind
of quality of service that
I can do quality service
based on either physical port,
like let this box that's
plugged into port number two,
be more important than that
one. I can do it
by Mac address this unique
identifier, regardless of its IP
address deserves more respect By
protocol QoS. This is this
just a bit, or is
the, are there different levels
of priority? Ah, there are
as many levels of priority
as that firmware chooses to
express on the links, this
boxes they've got bulk express
standard and premium. So premium
is basically like this absolutely
requires, you know, this is
so important, make it happen
and bulk is get it
there when you get it
there. Yeah. So it's nice
to have at least a
few, few different choices. So
if you have a couple
of different protocols going on,
you can stratify them. Exactly.
And for what I needed
in my house, I said,
this Mac address, the Mac
address of my Vontage box
is so important. It's premium.
All traffic get behind this
guy. Yeah. Well, BitTorrent I
said was bulk. I don't
ever want a bit torrent
pushing my wife off the
phone. Yup. HTTPS. I made
it express a little bit
better than standard. It was
important. I don't want to
have my credit card get
kicked off because of something
else. Right. FTP, lower to
bulk. And one of the
nice things about DDRT is
it has a huge list
of different protocols that it
can make decisions about. So
you can say, well, I
want my Xbox live to
get the best possible service
guarantee and I can do
it by protocol, regardless of
how many Xboxes I have
in the house. That's nice.
It is nice. Some of
the other things that you
can do are like port
forwarding. So I have a,
a replay TV. I've got
actually two of them. This
is a, like a TV
Yeah, no, it's not
a software TiVo. It's replay
TV. It's the one that
you were talking about beyond
TV. I'm sorry. I have
one of those, Those two,
but my replay TV replay
TV is the TV. Oh,
that didn't happen. Right? Right.
It's the Betamax of TiVo.
It's better, but no one's
gonna use it. Right. So
there's a really interesting thing
called  P O O
P L. I it's basically
a sharing network for replay
people because the replay TV
allows you to FTP television
shows to your neighbors. Oh
cool. Now it's not meant
in a Napster kind of
stealing a television kind of
a way, because you can
only send it one hop.
You can send it to
your neighbor or your mom
and that's it from there,
from there, you can watch
it or stop it. So
the replay TV though, was
designed before you UPNP universal
plug and play. And Nat
traversal were really a big
deal. So you actually have
to punch a hole in
your firewall. I don't want
my replay TVs living outside
my firewall. So I went
and picked a high high
up port, you know, 24,000
and something. And then I
can go into my firmware
and say that Mac address,
the unique identifier of my
replay gets this IP address.
That's called basically statically allocating
DHCP. So I can say
that it will always get
that IP address. And then
I punch a hole in
my, in my firewall just
for that one port and
just for the replay TV.
And then I go to
dot com and I
can say, Oh shoot, I
missed desperate Housewives last week.
Can you send it to
me? And it will be
sent over that particular port,
just to my replay. It's
not a major hole in
my firewall and I can
also set quality of service
or that multi gig file
doesn't cause me any trouble.
Wow. That's pretty cool. So
dot com. Is this
a place where you can,
if you have a set
Play TV, you can go
to  dot com and
sign up. It works for
4,500 series or 5,000 series
replay TVs. And it's just
a place to meet people
so that you can send
shows back and forth to
each other. Not to be
clear, it's not a file
sharing site. It's just a,
I missed that show. Can
you send it to me
site? Okay. Is that legal
by the way? Well, here's
the thing. One of the
reasons that replay TV has
not made a lot of
friends is because of stuff
like this, but poopy.com doesn't
do anything that owning a
replay TV doesn't already allow
you to do. Okay. It
just lets you meet more
people. I see. If you
had a replay TV and
I had one, we could
share files just cause I
know you, Oh, I see.
It's just a meetup. It's
a way to meet more
people. And it also has
a web services interface. So
it'll actually take the information
off your replay and upload
it and put it in
a shared catalog. So I
can search for all the
different shows available and say,
Oh, this guy I've never
met before, has that episode
of desperate Housewives, can you
send it to me? So
replay TV sounds pretty awesome.
How come it didn't take
off The interface. Wasn't friendly
and didn't go boop, boop
blue or whatever the
did. It didn't have thumbs
up and thumbs down. I
mean, TiVo has a great
interface. TiVo is TiVo was
windows and replay. TV is
Linux and one is pretty
and one is not. I
love my replay TV. There's
all sorts of great stuff
you can do with a
replay TV. There's another, if
you want to see what
a replay TV's like from
a networking standpoint, there's a
really interesting thing called DV
archive.org, digital video archive. It's
a Java implementation of a
replay TV. So I've actually
got two replays and I've
got one upstairs and one
downstairs. So I can be
downstairs watching a television show
from upstairs, but the replays
have limited space with DVR
archive. I can simulate a
software replay TV and use
my machine as unlimited space
for my shows. Now that
means you also have to
have video recording equipment on
your machine. Well, if I
join  dot com and
tell them I have a
replay and point them to
my DVR archive, Oh I
see. Then I can be
receiving, but not sending, but
poopy.com does keep track of
a ratio if you're receiving
lots of shows and not
sending them the note they'll
think that you're a Leacher.
Yeah. And you are. Absolutely.
So do any of these
Linux firmwares make working with
UPNP any easier? Yeah, they
do actually the, the latest
version of DD WRT version
23 that I just downloaded
has an optimized for gaming
button that basically takes care
of the kind of compatibility
that you'd expect to work
with Xbox live and also
has a UPNP page that
was not present on the
default firmware that lets you
see what applications within your
house have requested a hole
punched in the firewall. I
noticed as I was seeding
bit Torrens for you using
that as, as a Russ
, as Zuri has had
requested two ports open and
I got to see it
in that table. Now there,
there is a rumor that
there are some UPNP problems
with DD WRT version 23,
and you can look at
that up at the forums.
But I personally haven't seen
those and I found it
really interesting to, to hit
refresh on that page and
see the different things within
the, within my house, including
BitTorrent or my Xbox that
have requested holes in my
firewall. Yeah. That's nice to
see. It really is. All
right. So what else do
you got for us tonight?
So one of the things
that's important to note about
these link links, this boxes
that is I found it
a little difficult. I had
to dig for this. They're
not really PNP aware. They're
not really ideal for lots
of connections. You know, I
seed bit for you because
we want to help the
band without, for DNR TV.
And I started getting lots
of errors on my firewall.
Recently when I started seeding
this, it turned out that
the number of connections that
this this device can track
by default was limited to
512. It turns out you
can use potty, you can
look, go into a terminal
and you can say NV
Ram, like nonvolatile Ram, you
can say NV Ram, get
RC underscore startup. And you
can see a startup script,
basically an auto exec bat
that your little router runs
through. And you can make
changes in there using echo,
just like a, an endorser
where you can echo something
and then use the greater
than symbol to push it
into a file. And you
can update as part of
this auto exec process that
the router goes through a
lot of the different settings
that aren't necessarily made available.
I'm going to put these
up on my blog, but
basically upped the connections to
4,096. And I also lowered
the connection tracking timeouts, typically
TCP on these routers will
keep connections open for hours
and hours. But with BitTorrent,
you know, if someone goes
away, I'd really like to
kick them out within 10
minutes or so. Right. So
I kind of came up
with a best practice. I
found in about three different
forums and I'll blog about
that soon. But I was
really just amazed that this
little device was really a
computer. I mean, I know
that intellectually, I can look
at it and see that
this is a machine, but
you just don't expect to
get a terminal prompt right
out of a little half
pound piece of blue plastic.
It's pretty crazy stuff. Yeah.
Well, you've always been able
to do that with routers
like Cisco routers, but always
been able to tell them
that into and mess around
with them and stuff. But
I mean, having a complete
operating system in there is
totally different thing. Right? See
to see the, you know,
the Cisco funky command prompt
is one thing and it's
so complicated. People get certified
on it too, to see
a familiar file system and
say, wow, I actually can
VI and I can use
some of my Linux skills
to find my way around
this. These devices are basically
you turning a $60 piece
of plastic into a many
hundreds of dollars device. Yeah,
they are. There are other
things you can do with
voiceover IP bridges. There are,
you can make it a
wireless bridge. There's an article@shrinkstir.com
slash  dot com where
a guy used to have
these devices and bridge them
together to make sure he
could have full wireless coverage
over his entire house. Wow.
There's really no limit to
what you can, you can
do. And I like I
blogged about recently. I've got
it set up where I
can VPN back into my
house from hotel rooms. Excellent.
Yeah, that'd be PPN stuff
is up at  shrinks.com/
and you can set
up a dynamic domain name
service using Dyn, dns.com. So
if you have an IP
address on DSL or on
cable modems that happens to
float or you don't always
know what your IP address
is going to be, you
can set up your own
custom, like I could be
dotnet rocks dot dynamic, dns.com
and it would automatically update
and the firmware will actually
make the web services call
up to there and update
that information for you. I
got a quick story about
dynamic DNS, Dyn, dns.com. My
mother is all, you know,
just getting into the computer
the last couple of years.
And of course is learning
very slowly, you know? And
so I've always found myself
over there trying to, you
know, fix their printer or,
you know, fix some program
that went awry and you
know, it's a 15 minute
drive to get to her
house. So I set her
up with a name at
Dyn, dns.com and, and set
up VNC on it. And
so then anytime that anytime
that I wanted to connect,
I could just connect VNC
and She thought it was
just like voodoo, what kind
of, what kind of OSTP
was she running windows 2000
at the time. Wow. And
now she's running XP, but
so now you can use
the ask for remote assistant
stuff. Yeah. I still prefer
VNC to that. However, got
a good password on that
though, right? Yeah. Absolutely mentioning
that. You, you had said
that she's on windows 2000
and you know, I had
a similar problem recently where
I needed to connect to
a windows 2000 machine and
I didn't want to go
to the trouble of setting
up a VNC server. There's
a really interesting service that
Joel Spolsky from fog Creek
software has set up called
copilot.com where you basically go
up, you pay five bucks
or 10 bucks. You, they
give you a ticket number.
The person that needs help
just go to their site,
copilot.com and enters in the
ticket downloads program that they
run. It's basically a packaged
version of VNC server. They
enter in the ticket number.
They hit run. You do
the exact same thing on
the client side. Oh, that's
nice. And they handle the
natural, Vercel the network address
translation. So they'll actually broker
that traffic. So even if
they're behind a firewall, they'll
let you connect. They don't
have to install a service.
They don't have to do
anything. And when you pay,
you're paying for a ticket
for 24 hours, huh? It's
a really neat thing. copilot.com.
This is the save that
could save my life on
a couple of occasions. I
could, I could have used
that. Definitely. And actually there,
this project was written by
a bunch of interns. It
was called project aardvark. If
you go up to video.google.com
and search for project aardvark,
they're actually selling a video
and DVDs about how all
of these interns built this
thing and how they released
the source back to the
public because VNC itself was,
opensourced interesting. If you want
to know more about VNC,
go to ultra vnc.sf.net. And
that's a tool that we
use a lot here, pop
as well. Good stuff. All
right, Skye. Well, it's been
a heck of a show.
Thanks a lot. Thank you.
And we'll see you next
week on Hanselman.